# VUE TRAININGPurpose: go further on my understanding of Vue.js after working 9 months on a Vue project.- create a quick start vue project https://vuejs.org/guide/quick-start- cd vue-training- npm install- npm run format- npm run devstart : https://vueschool.io/lessons/getting-started-with-vue-js-and-the-composition-api on vue schooloption api (vue2) vs composition api(vue3)ref + v-model -> don't need to use useState/setState like in react, two way data binding for reactive references2 ways = stay sync everywhere the ref is used`ref` reactive reference## run JavaScript expressions directly in the templatejust one expression possible, you can't declare new variables inside## List Rendering in VueIn almost all applications, there is a need to iterate or loop through a list of items and render them on the page.In this lesson, we're taking a closer look at Vue's v-for directive, which lets us iterate through arrays and objects in an elegant matter.`v-for`https://vueschool.io/articles/vuejs-tutorials/tips-and-gotchas-for-using-key-with-v-for-in-vue-js-3/> Don't forget the key !To know how and when rerender elements, should be unique. Is there is not id in the data list, use the index (vue does it by default):key attribute binding dynamicdestructuring is used in the example to get key cause data list is an objectv-for can handle objects too and not only array, index value will be the key## User Inputs in VueYou'll learn how to handle user inputs with the `v-model` directive. v-model gives super powers to text inputs, checkboxes, radio buttons, selects, and more!bindcan't take modifierafter we blurred the input v-model.lazyv-model.numberv-model.trimcan be used on text areas, select, radio button, check box and morewith iceCreamFlavors ref and array and checkboxes, selecting a checkbox add value to the array# User Events in Vue 3respond to and handle user events with Vue's v-on directive.`v-on:click` same thing as `@click``v-on:keyup.enter` enter is a modifierwith form v-on:submit.prevent` same as e.prevent.default()with form, the use of enter key instead of submit works, so we remove `    v-on:keyup.enter="items.push({id: items.length + 1,label: newItem})"`## Methods in Vue with the Composition APIWhen the expression gets too verbose, or we need the same logic in multiple places, we can extract the logic to a function and fire the function instead. These functions are called methods and allow us to DRY up the code.encapsulate `items.push({id: items.length + 1,label: newItem}) in a new methodinside the script section, to acces the value of some refactive reference, we have to use a special property named `value` because Vue.js uses proxies in order to create reactive data. That's not the case for primitive values such as strings, numbers or boolean. (?)## Conditionals in VueConditional rendering is essential on any dynamic website. Vue.js offers two ways to render elements on our page conditionally, and in this lesson we're learning how the **v-if** and **v-else** directives work.not appearing in the form## HTML Attribute Binding in VueWe know how to render data in the DOM with Vue 3, and now it's time to take a closer look at how we can bind HTML attributes to our Vue data.This is achieved with Vue's **v-bind** directive and would let us change the href (or any other HTML attribute) of a link or swap out an image if we need to.NOTE: for the link to work properly you should provide the protocol in the input (http:// or https://){{ double mustache syntax`v-bind:disabled="!editing" is mostly used with the syntax `:disabled="!editing"`## Dynamic CSS Classes with VueA common need and use case for attribute bindings is to manipulate the look of elements with CSS classes or style attributes.To make this task easier than ever, Vue provides special enhancements when v-bind is used with the class or style attribute. In this lesson, we learn how to apply dynamic classes based on our Vue data.add a strikeoutwe have a li for each item of items reactive refstatic class```vue   class="static-class"      :class="{        strikeout: purchased,        priority: highPriority,      }"``````html<li class="static-class strikeout priority">10 party hats</li><li class="static-class strikeout">20 cups</li>```With an array```vue      :class="[        purchased ? 'strikeout' : '',        highPriority ? 'priority' : '',        ]"```Use a ternary, and add the possibility to add more classesclass can also be defined in reactive refs